FEA add TunedThresholdClassifier meta-estimator to post-tune the cut-off threshold (#26120)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/prediction.rst

.. currentmodule:: sklearn.model_selection

.. _cutoffclassifier:

========================================================
Tuning cut-off decision threshold for classes prediction
========================================================

Classifiers are predictive models: they use statistical learning to predict

> outcomes. The outcomes of a classifier takes two forms: a "soft" score for each
> sample in relation to each class, and a "hard" categorical prediction (i.e.
> class label). Soft predictions are obtained using :term:`predict_proba` or
> :term:`decision_function` while hard predictions are obtained using
> :term:`predict`.

Reviewer: Trying out some slightly different wording. Doing two comments one for this paragraph and one for the one below. I somehow don't like the "soft" and "hard". The way I think about it is that a classification model predicts a score and then we threshold that score to assign class labels.

WDYT?

```suggestion
outcomes. The output of a classifier takes two forms: a score for each
sample in relation to each class and a categorical prediction (class label).
Scores are obtained using :term:`predict_proba` or
:term:`decision_function` while class labels are obtained using
:term:`predict`.
```

Reviewer: if you accept the change from "soft" and "hard" we need to fix up some later parts of the docs as well which refer to it. I can make suggestions for that if you like it, otherwise I won't spam this with useless suggestions

Reviewer 2: I also don't like soft and hard. The statistical terms are
- `predict`: deterministic classification or decision rule
- `predict_proba`: probabilistic classification

Author: I see the point here. I will reformulate accordingly.

@lorentzenchr In statistical terms, how would you refer to the output of `decision_function`?

Reviewer 2: Beware that I'm not **the** statistical reference. Here is my understanding:
`decision_function` is often nothing more than a technical detail, what matters in statistical terms is `predict_proba`. For estimators with `predict_proba`, `decision_function` is often the predictions in link space (linear predictor for linear models, raw predictions in our HGBT code). ML literatur often calls it "score" which confuses me every time.

TLDR: I don't have a good universal name for it, but it is certainly not a "decision function", our `predict` is a decision function in statistical terms.

> In scikit-learn, there is a connection between soft and hard prediction. In the
> case of a binary classification, hard predictions are obtained by associating
> the positive class with probability value greater than 0.5 (obtained with
> :term:`predict_proba`) or decision function value greater than 0 (obtained with
> :term:`decision_function`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For binary classification, class labels are obtained by associating
the positive class with a score greater than 0.5 (obtained with
:term:`predict_proba`) or decision function value greater than 0 (obtained with
:term:`decision_function`).
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe better not use the term "score" for a predicted probability.

    >>> from sklearn.datasets import make_classification
    >>> from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeClassifier
    >>> X, y = make_classification(random_state=0)
    >>> classifier = DecisionTreeClassifier(max_depth=2, random_state=0).fit(X, y)
    >>> classifier.predict_proba(X[:4])
    array([[0.94   , 0.06   ],
           [0.94   , 0.06   ],
           [0.04..., 0.95...],
           [0.04..., 0.95...]])
    >>> classifier.predict(X[:4])
    array([0, 0, 1, 1])

> Similar rules apply for other classification problems.

Reviewer: For me a classification problem is something like "digits" or more generally "given this dataset predict this label". Do you mean "... other classifiers."? But then, the rule is the same for all classifiers no? I think overall I am confused.com :)

Author: I don't recall what I intended to say here. I will remove it then.

While these approaches are reasonable as default behaviors, they might not be
adapted to some cases. The context and nature of the use case define the
expected behavior of the classifier and thus the strategy to convert soft
predictions into hard predictions. We illustrate this point with an example.

Let's imagine the deployment of a predictive model helping medical doctors to

> detect cancers. In a setting where this model was a tool to discard obvious

Reviewer: ```suggestion
detect cancer. In a setting where this model was a tool to discard obvious
```

Reviewer: Maybe this should be tumours instead? Cancer is the name of the illness and tumour is the thing that is growing in you.

cases and false positives don't lead to potentially harmful treatments, doctors
might be interested in having a high recall (all cancers cases should be tagged
as such) to not miss any patient with a cancer. However, that is at the cost of
having more false positive predictions (i.e. lower precision). Thus, in terms of
decision threshold, it may be better to classify a patient as having a cancer

> for a probability lower than 0.5.

Reviewer: nit: should we call the output of `predict_proba` a probability? I thought (but can't point you to a reference) that except for some few models the score that a model outputs is more like a "the higher the more likely it is the positive class" but that you should not interpret it as a probability. Or said differently, if you want to interpret it as a probability you need to calibrate it.

Reviewer 2: `predict_proba` is a predicted (conditional) probability. The question how good it is is a  different one. For that, calibration is very important. Good models don't need to be calibrated, they already are like a well/correctly specified logistic regression.

Post-tuning of the decision threshold
=====================================

One solution to address the problem stated in the introduction is to tune the decision

> threshold of the classifier once this model has been trained. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
threshold of the classifier once the model has been trained. The
```

> :class:`~sklearn.model_selection.CutOffClassifier` allows to tune this threshold using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:class:`~sklearn.model_selection.CutOffClassifier` tunes the threshold using
```

> an internal cross-validation. The optimum threshold is tuned to maximize a given metric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an internal cross-validation. The optimum threshold is chosen to maximize a given metric
```
to avoid using "tune" everywhere

with or without constraints.

> The following image illustrate the tuning of the cut-off point for a gradient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image illustrates the tuning of the cut-off point for a gradient
```

        >>> scorer(model, X_test, y_test)
        0.82...
        >>> # compare it with the internal score found by cross-validation
        >>> model.objective_score_
        0.86...

A second strategy aims at maximizing a metric while imposing constraints on another
metric. Four pre-defined options exist, 2 that uses the Receiver Operating
Characteristic (ROC) statistics and 2 that uses the Precision-Recall statistics.

- `"max_tpr_at_tnr_constraint"`: maximizes the True Positive Rate (TPR) such that the
  True Negative Rate (TNR) is the closest to a given value.
- `"max_tnr_at_tpr_constraint"`: maximizes the TNR such that the TPR is the closest to
  a given value.
- `"max_precision_at_recall_constraint"`: maximizes the precision such that the recall
  is the closest to a given value.
- `"max_recall_at_precision_constraint"`: maximizes the recall such that the precision
  is the closest to a given value.

For these options, the `constraint_value` parameter needs to be defined. In addition,
you can use the `pos_label` parameter to indicate the label of the class of interest.

The final strategy maximizes a custom utility function. This problem is also known as

> cost-sensitive learning. The utility function is defined by providing dictionary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cost-sensitive learning. The utility function is defined by providing a dictionary
```

containing the cost-gain associated with the entries of the confusion matrix. The keys
are defined as `{"tn", "fp", "fn", "tp"}`. The class of interest is defined using the

> `pos_label` parameter. Refer to :ref:`cost_sensitive_learning_example` for an example

Reviewer: Where is this label defined? I was expecting to find it in this PR but it doesn't appear?

Author: l.262 of the `plot_cutoff_tuning.py` example
